RECOMMENDATIONS FOR IMPROVING DATA INCIDENT MANAGEMENT IN
HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATIONS

Introducing or improving data incident management in humanitarian operations is critical to more
responsible data practice in the sector. The Centre for Humanitarian Data recommends that organizations
focus on the following areas:

1. Establish a common understanding of data incident management
Use a risk model to understand the causal chain that can lead to data incidents for specific offices and
systems. Identify key threat actors and vulnerabilities for offices and systems and understand existing
security controls and their effectiveness. Finally, map existing data incident management capacity
and determine whether it is positioned appropriately. Once clear definitions and processes are
articulated, invest in staff awareness and support a culture of open dialogue about incidents, in which
proactive reporting and management of incidents is incentivized, not punished.

2. Strengthen data incident management capacity
Take measures to put in place security controls to mitigate the risk of data incidents, and share best
practice with partners. Build on existing work in the sector to fill governance gaps which can create
vulnerabilities for your organization. Engage with organizational partners to set up information
channels around data incidents. Share known vulnerabilities in a controlled manner with trusted
counterparts for cross-organizational learning.

3. Support continuous learning
Support learning and development of improved data incident management practices by organizing
training and drills based on scenarios likely to occur in different operational settings. These exercises
should occur regularly and may even involve multiple organizations training and drilling together. In
addition, document actual data incidents as cases for internal knowledge development.

Organizations are encouraged to share their experience in the development of data incident management
with the Centre for Humanitarian Data via centrehumdata@un.org.

COLLABORATORS: YALE UNIVERSITY, JACKSON INSTITUTE OF GLOBAL AFFAIRS.

The Centre for Humanitarian Data (‘the Centre’), together with key partners, is publishing a series of eight
guidance notes on Data Responsibility in Humanitarian Action over the course of 2019 and 2020. The Guidance
Note series follows the publication of the OCHA Data Responsibility Guidelines in March 2019. Through

the series, the Centre aims to provide additional guidance on specific issues, processes and tools for data
responsibility in practice. This series is made possible with the generous support of the Directorate-General for
European Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid Operations (DG ECHO).

This document covers humanitarian aid activities implemented with the financial assistance of the

ae European Union. The views expressed herein should not be taken, in any way, to reflect the official opinion
* of the European Union, and the European Commission is not responsible for any use that may be made of
* the information it contains.

kk *
*
k

xk yk

This project is co-funded
by the European Union

THE CENTRE FOR HUMANITARIAN DATA AUGUST 2019 5