@D OCHA [sree]

* Humanitarian data incidents are events involving the management of data that have caused
harm or have the potential to cause harm to crisis-affected people, organizations and their
operations, and other individuals or groups.

+ Examples of humanitarian data incidents include physical breaches of infrastructure,
unauthorised disclosure of data, and the use of beneficiary data for non-humanitarian purposes,
among others.

« Adata incident has four aspects: (i) a threat source, (ii) a threat event, (iii) a vulnerability and (iv)
an adverse impact.

+ There are five steps to responding to data incidents: (i) notification, (ii) classification, (iii)
treatment, and (iv) closure of the incident, as well as (v) learning.

In the humanitarian sector, data incidents are events involving the management of data that have caused
harm or have the potential to cause harm to crisis affected populations, humanitarian organisations

and their operations, and other individuals or groups. These events can exploit or exacerbate existing
vulnerabilities.? In some cases, they may also create new vulnerabilities that can increase the risk of future
data incidents.

Humanitarians have not had a common understanding of what comprises a data incident, nor is there

a minimum technical standard for how these incidents should be prevented and managed. How the
humanitarian sector develops tools and implements procedures for data incident management will play
a significant role in the evolution of the ethical, human rights, technical, and professional standards of
humanitarian operations.

“If aid actors digitize more of their data and communications, they urgently
need to increase their digital security efforts. Though some actors are
developing promising protective tools, aid organizations overall might be
well advised to listen to a quote from IT-security circles: “There are two
types of organizations: those who have been hacked, and those who will be.”

- Rahel Dette, Do No Digital Harm: Mitigating Technology Risk in Humanitarian Contexts

THE CENTRE FOR HUMANITARIAN DATA AUGUST 2019