Humanitarian organizations can develop their own specific risk models for data incident management
incorporating these factors. The nature of these risk factors and how they come together to constitute a
data incident will vary from one organization to another and should be adapted to specific operational
realities.

STEPS IN DATA INCIDENT MANAGEMENT

After clearly defining what constitutes a data incident, organizations can develop Standard Operating
Procedures (SOPs) for data incident management.

Data incident management SOPs should include the following 5 steps: 1) notification, 2) classification;
3) treatment; 4) closure; and 5) knowledge base.’

Classification Treatment Close the Knowledge
of the incident of the incident incident base

Figure 3: Five steps in the treatment of security incidents (Source: How to handle incidents according to ISO 27001 A.16,
Antonio Jose Segovia®

The application of these steps in an organization can look as follows:

1. Notification of the incident: A person detects an incident and notifies relevant colleagues according
to the communication procedures of the organization (usually an email, a phone call, a software tool,
etc.). A notification should contain, if possible, a description of the key risk factors involved in the
incident: source, event, vulnerability and impact.

2. Classification of the incident: The recipient of the notification classifies the incident based on it’s
impact (high, medium or low) and the urgency of treatment (high, medium or low).? Managing risk
begins with classifying all incidents, whether or not tangible harm actually results from them.”®

3. Treatment of the incident: A technical expert decides on the necessary measures to treat the incident
once the incident has been classified and the time for treatment has been agreed.

4. Closure of the incident: All information generated during the treatment is recorded and the person
who first sent notification of the incident is informed that the incident is closed.

5. Knowledge base: All information generated during the treatment of the incident is used to inform and
train colleagues and as reference material for future similar incidents.

Humanitarian organizations can base their SOPs on this 5-step model, describing how each step should
take place within their organization. This should include the functions/roles and teams within an
organization that are responsible at each stage of the process. These steps should be incorporated into
or extended from existing incident response protocols (e.g. security incident management related to
humanitarian access).

In a given response context, organizations should also work to integrate any joint incident management
procedures into existing coordination structures, such as the clusters and mechanisms for inter- and
intra-cluster coordination.

7 The Centre for Humanitarian Data provides several sources of guidance that can inform the development of Data Incident Management SOPs on
the Data Responsibility page.
® How to handle incidents according to ISO 27001 A.16, Antonio Jose Segovia, (October 2015.).

® For humanitarian organizations, an example of such a classification is the World Health Organization's (WHO) International Classification of
Patient Safety, Conceptual Framework for the International Classification of Patient Safety.

10 WHO, Conceptual Framework for the International Classification of Patient Safety.

THE CENTRE FOR HUMANITARIAN DATA AUGUST 2019 4