Efficiency and Feasibility: Best Use of Resources
With the Burkina Faso HRP being severely underfunded, it is unclear whether this anticipatory
action pilot diverts funding away from more urgent needs identified by the Food Security Cluster.
e Recommendation: Discuss the potential impacts that $15 million could have on the
region or globally and compare to the impacts of the no-regrets approach.

Efficiency and Feasibility: Maximise Collective Action and Avoid Duplication
The rationale for the choice of model, and how it helps leverage common resources and avoid
duplication, is lacking.
e Recommendation: Expand the framework to discuss how the model complements
existing early warning and food insecurity mitigation efforts in Burkina Faso, such as
FEWS NET and CH/IPC.

Efficiency and feasibility: Risk/harm-benefit Analysis
A risk/harm-benefit analysis is required to understand ethical and financial risks and is missing
from the framework.

e Recommendation: Perform a full risk/harm-benefit analysis.

Accountability and Community Participation
The implementation plan makes little reference to affected communities, local organizations and
authorities in the design of the framework.
e Recommendation: The framework should include activities to engage and explain the
model to local civil society, affected populations and authorities.
e Recommendation: Explain why there were no partnerships formed with ECOWAS,
UEMOA and the RCPA.

Neutrality, Impartiality and Conflict-sensitivity
It is unclear how much the framework takes into account the presence of conflict in the region.
e Recommendation: Investigate the feasibility of carrying out a detailed conflict sensitivity
assessment.

Trustworthiness and Reliability
Outstanding questions remain on choice of forecast, and whether other options were considered.
e Recommendation: Expand the explanation of why the IRI dataset was the only one used.

Transparency and Explainability
No information on how an external actor can learn how the model works and understand the basis
of the trigger decisions.
e Recommendation: Amend the framework to include activities that engage and explain
the model to local civil society, affected populations and authorities.