US 2007/0090937 Al

required for the vehicle to reach a refueling station), as
shown at reference numeral 21.

[0032] It is to be understood that the position of the vehicle
12 may be monitored using the location detection system 24
operatively disposed in the vehicle 12. The position of the
vehicle 12 may be monitored substantially continuously or
at predetermined time intervals.

[0033] Some vehicle systems 16 and/or the call center 46
are capable of monitoring the vehicle fuel conditions. Non-
limitative examples of such fuel conditions include remain-
ing fuel level, fuel usage rate (fuel usage per unit distance
traveled), and/or the like, and/or combinations thereof.

[0034] In an embodiment, the system(s) 16 monitor the
fuel conditions, such as a remaining fuel quantity. The data
collected by the system(s) 16 is then transmitted to the
vehicle communications network 14, which in turn commu-
nicates such data to the telematics unit 18. The telematics
unit 18 communicates the data to the call center 46 via the
other components in the system 10. The call center 46 may
monitor other fuel conditions using the data and other data
retrieved. For example, the call center 46 may use the fuel
level data and vehicle speed to calculate the fuel usage rate
(ie. the rate at which the vehicle 12 is currently using fuel).

In an alternate embodiment, the processor 20 is capable of
monitoring the fuel conditions.

[0035] Using the data regarding the fuel condition(s), an
off-board system (e.g. the call center 46) or the on-board
processor 20 is capable of determining a remaining driving
distance. It is to be understood that the remaining driving
distance is indicative of the mileage that the vehicle 12 may
travel with the current fuel level and at the current fuel usage
rate. It is to be further understood that the mileage is
representative of actual driving distances by highways and
streets available to the user. As previously stated, the
remaining driving distance may be continuously monitored
and updated.

0036] ‘The remaining driving distance may be presented
to the user via audible prompts, digital displays (non-
limitative examples of which include a multi-function dis-
play (MFD), an LCD display, a driver information center
display, a radio display, an arbitrary text device, and/or
combinations thereof), and/or combinations thereof.

0037] The method further includes monitoring the then-
current position of the vehicle 12 and providing the user with
a location of (and/or directions to) at least one refueling
station within the remaining driving distance of the vehicle
12. It is to be understood that the method includes deter-
mining a driving distance to the refueling stations that are
within the remaining driving distance.

0038] The call center 46 is capable of accessing a data-
base of the locations of refueling stations and then deter-
mining the refueling stations within the remaining driving
distance of the vehicle 12. The call center 46 may commu-
nicate the location(s) of the refueling stations to the user via
the telematics unit 18. In an alternate embodiment, the
on-board processor 20 is capable of accessing a database of
locations of refueling stations and determining whether the
refueling stations are within the remaining driving distance,
and providing the locations of the refueling stations to the
user. It is to be understood that the refueling station loca-

Apr. 26, 2007

tion(s) may be presented to the driver using audio prompts
and/or display systems, such as those described hereinabove.
[0039] In any of the embodiment(s) disclosed herein, the
call center 46 and/or the on-board processor 20 may addi-

tionally check the hours of operation for fueling stations and
exclude those that are closed at the then-current time.

[0040] It is to be understood that the locations, operating
hours, type(s) of fuel sold/dispensed, and/or any other
relevant data regarding fueling stations may be substantially

regularly updated to the vehicle 12 using components of the
system 10 that are linked to, for example, a central reposi-
tory of fueling station data that has the ability to respond
relatively quickly to a request to download data. The vehi-
cle’s location detection system 24 may provide its location,

ing driving distance, fuel type, and optionally the last
time the database was updated. The central repository would
download (for example, to an on-board computer 20 having
monitoring, computational, decision making, and commu-
nication capabilities) the location of the appropriate refuel-
ing stations within the current driving range, taking into
account a designated or predetermined margin for error. In
a non-limitative example where the vehicle 12 remains in
the same area that it was in at the last update, new station
locations may be downloaded.

[0041] Further, the distance from the then-current vehicle
position to any of the locations of the refueling stations
within the remaining driving distance may be continuously
monitored. Actual driving distance/range of the vehicle 12
may be altered by changes in weather conditions, changes in
road conditions (e.g. rural versus city driving, or mountain-
ous versus flat roads), changes in the route stored in the
navigation system, and/or the like. In a non-limitative
example, if the road or weather conditions slow a driver
down, or if the driver is re-routed due to a detour, fuel usage
rate may change, thus altering the remaining driving dis-
tance/range and potentially altering the fueling locations
within the remaining driving distance.

[0042] In an embodiment, the fuel station locations pro-
vided to the user may be particular to that user and/or
vehicle. For example, the call center 46 may have on file that
the vehicle 12 requires diesel fuel, and thus will provide to
the user the location of fueling stations that sell diesel fuel.
Alternately, the vehicle 12 may identify the required fuel
type when a fueling station location update is requested or
performed.

[0043] Upon being presented with various fueling station
locations, the user may proceed to any refueling station
selected from a list of suitable available alternatives (if any).
The user may also initiate a navigation route request to a
particular station. Initiation of the request may be verbal
and/or via a physical motion. As such, an input system (used
to initiate such a request) may include an alphanumeric
keypad, a microphone 28, a menu selection system, and/or
combinations thereof.

[0044] Verbal communication may take place via micro-
phone 28 coupled to the in-vehicle or mobile phone 32
associated with the telematics unit 18. Caller utterances into
the microphone 28 are received at a call center 46, which
tokenizes the utterance stream for further processing. In one
embodiment, the tokenized utterances are placed in a sub-
scriber information database 52 at the call center 46.