Federal Data Strategy Improving Agency Data Playbook

Step 2 - Assess current staff capacity for needed data
skills

What? Having identified the processes and the associated data skills that the agency performs to turn
raw data into actionable knowledge, the agency needs to determine which of those skills staff and
managers currently possess. Without a clear understanding of how the current workforce’s data skills
match up with needed data skills, the agency cannot determine how to invest in filling gaps.

The agency should view the skills assessment in terms of a network or ecosystem of staff and skills. For
example, increasing staff capability and capacity for predictive analytics alone will not result in effective
use of predictive analysis products. Managers and leaders, program staff, and mission support staff also
need specific applicable data skills in order for these advanced data products to be effectively used.

Who? The agency’s Chief Data Officer, Statistical Official, Evaluation Officer, Chief Human Capital
Officer, Chief Learning Officer, and Data Governance Body.

How? Develop and implement a process to determine alignment of staff data skills to critical agency
data skills identified in Step 1.

Checklist

O Decide how best to assess staff capacity to perform the data skills identified in Step 1 across the
agency. Possible options include analyzing agency position descriptions and personnel data,
querying supervisors or staff through surveys or focus groups, and measuring knowledge
through pre- and post-training tests. Often a combination of methods will be needed to fully
assess capacity. Creating survey and test questions and focus group protocols are examples of
activities that require using appropriate data skills to properly develop.

O1 Perform the assessment and review the results.

Example

Agency X took a two-pronged approach to Step 2 — Assess the current staff capacity for needed data
skills. Using notes from its Step 1 discussions for inspiration, the agency Evaluation Officer, Chief Data
Officer and Statistical Official created a survey with 10 questions capturing a) to what extent program
managers consider a given data process is relevant to their work, and b) to what extent, if relevant, they
believe their staff have the requisite skills to execute that process. In addition to this widely-distributed
survey, the team coordinated with the Chief Human Capital Officer and Learning Officer, and conducted
several hour-long focus groups to get a deeper understanding of current data skills capacity. To round
out the analysis, they worked with the Chief Human Capital Officer to analyze personnel data to
determine potential staff turnover using retirement eligibility in key data roles. This approach was
feasible for Agency X; yet, a different method may be necessary for other agencies.

STRATEGY.DATA.GOV Page7 RESOURCES.DATA.GOV