Federal Data Strategy Improving Agency Data Skills Playbook

Step 3 - Perform a data skills gap analysis

What? After determining the required and available data skills, the agency should identify and prioritize
any unmet needs. It is important to take a holistic, integrated view for assessing data skills — both
horizontally across offices and teams, and vertically within the agency hierarchy. There are, after all,
many actors who must work collaboratively to make good and ethical use of data associated with
analysis activities.

Who? The agency’s Chief Data Officer, Statistical Official, Evaluation Officer, Chief Human Capital
Officer, Chief Learning Officer, and Data Governance Body.

How? Perform a gap analysis between the critical agency skills identified in Step 1 — Identify any critical
data skills needed for the agency, and the available staff skills determined by Step 2 — Assess the current
staff capacity for needed data skills.

Once the gap analysis is complete, the results should inform how the agency will develop the plan to
provide and supplement data skills training and related resources to their staff and managers. The
agency should also consider how to retain, recruit, or otherwise obtain talent to meet their data skill
needs, for example, referencing recent OPM guidance” relevant to data science skills. For the results of
the gap analysis to be actionable, a crosswalk should be developed to clearly show existing data skills
versus data skills needed, assessing not only where there is unmet need for skills, but also where skills
gaps exist.

Checklist

01 Discuss and prioritize the gaps that exist between the current capacity at the agency-level (i.e.,
Step 2), and the data skills and associated resources the agency requires (i.e., Step 1).

O Consider how those gaps will change as the workforce turns over and technology evolves across
the agency.

Example

Agency X returned to the framework and the documentation of what activities the agency did in relation
to each process. With the survey results and focus group notes in hand, Agency X prioritized the
following critical gaps:

1) Curate:

a) Agency X staff are well-versed in working with structured data using SQL databases, but
partner organizations who provide data to Agency X are increasingly collecting
unstructured data and storing them in NoSQL technologies. Agency X has very few
employees comfortable with this technology.

2° U.S. Office of Personnel Management. (2019). Data Scientist Titling Guidance. Retrieved from chcoc,gov/content/
scientist-titling-guidance.

STRATEGY.DATA.GOV Page9 RESOURCES.DATA.GOV