Federal Data Strategy Improving Agency Data Skills Playbook

Step 1 - Identify any critical data skills needed for the
agency

What? The agency formulates a clear idea of how data skills play a role in the execution of its mission(s)
and supporting leadership priorities and its functions at the present and continuing into the future.

Who? The agency’s Chief Data Officer, Statistical Official, Evaluation Officer, Chief Human Capital
Officer, Chief Learning Officer, and Data Governance Body.

How? Identify agency leadership priorities and mission imperatives around data‘ and then convene
agency staff to outline the ways data flows into and within the agency and is used to support decision-
making or otherwise create value towards these priorities. It is important to take a holistic, integrated
view for assessing data skills — both horizontally across operating units, and vertically within the agency
hierarchy. An agency-level assessment is required; however, this assessment can be performed at the
level that makes sense for the agency. If a distributed approach is used, a centralized group should
review the needs or gaps from each of the operating units of the agency and compile. A common
vocabulary for the federal data lifecycle was generated to support both this playbook and also for use in
Action 13 of the Federal Data Strategy 2020 Action Plan, “Develop a Curated Data Skills Catalog,” by
adapting the NIST Big Data Reference Architecture’ and linking subsequent data roles with Federal Data
Strategy practices. The framework below lays out a variety of roles for those involved in the federal data
lifecycle (Appendix A). These include data-focused roles® (given on the next page) and others in the
organization such as leadership and domain experts. The required data skills are given for each of the
roles in Appendix B.

4 The learning agenda development process will be a helpful resource for identifying these priorities. See M-19-23, Phase 1
Implementation of the Foundations for Evidence-Based Policymaking Act of 2018: Learning Agendas, Personnel, and Planning
Guidance, July 10, 2019, found at: whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2019/07/M-19-23.pdf.

5 U.S, Department of Commerce. National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). NIST Big Data Program. Retrieved from
nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.1500-6r2.pdf.

5 Agency personnel in all data roles need to have a basic understanding of their agency's cybersecurity and privacy policies that
govern data and need to work closely with their agency experts in cybersecurity and privacy throughout the data lifecycle
More information on the Federal Information Security Modernization Act of 2014 can be found at
congress.gov/113/plaws/publ283/PLAW-113pubI283.pdf

STRATEGY.DATA.GOV Page 3 RESOURCES.DATA.GOV