Federal Data Strategy Improving Agency Data Skills Playbook

Metrics and Related Practices and Actions

Metrics

Beyond the metrics presented in this playbook, agencies should develop performance metrics, assign
responsibility, audit practices, collect implementation and outcome data, and document and learn from
results. Much of this information will be useful for any future data infrastructure (Action 3) or data skills
(Action 4) assessments and sharing with other agencies. Agencies should share processes, metrics, and
results with OMB and other agencies where possible.

Related strategy practices and actions

Action 4 of the Federal Data Strategy 2020 Action Plan is designed to guide agencies in addressing their
data skill needs. This should not be taken as an isolated action, as many of the other Federal Data
Strategy actions and principles inform agency-specific implementation of this action. Agencies are
encouraged to use this Action as a way to build an organizational culture that values data, to be as
inclusive as possible with their workforce, and to make data skills broadly relevant within their
organization on a day-to-day basis.

The Federal Data Strategy principles serve as motivational guidelines in the areas of ethical governance,
conscious design, and a learning culture. They underlie the comprehensive data strategy that
encompasses federal and federally-sponsored program, statistical, and mission-support data. These
principles include concepts reflected in existing frameworks, such as those for the protection of personal
information, for the management of information as an asset, for federal statistical agencies, and for
federal evidence building. These principles inform the Federal Data Strategy’s practices and actions.

Increasing the data skills of the federal workforce requires putting these principles into practice. Federal
Data Strategy practices are involved in many of the data roles, whether technical skills associated with
analysis, ‘softer’ skills associated with communication and coalition building, or otherwise. Refer to the
Crosswalk of Federal Data Strategy Practices and the Federal Data Lifecycle in Appendix C for details.

Additionally, other Federal Data Strategy actions may require training or otherwise be related to an
agency’s data skills, priority data analytics lifecycles, and evidence-building functions. For example:

e Action 1 (identify Data Needs to Answer Priority Agency Questions) and Action 5 (Identify
Priority Datasets for Agency Open Data Plans) can help identify priority data analytics lifecycles.

e Action 2 (Constitute a Diverse Data Governance Body) creates a data governance body that will
play a central role in Action 4 Step 1.

e Action 3 (Assess Data and Related Infrastructure Maturity) overlaps significantly with the
current Action 4 Step 2, which can be seen as a subcomponent of Action 3.

e Action 8 (Improve Data and Model Resources for Al Research and Development) would benefit
from having internal knowledge of Artificial Intelligence to assist non-federal uses of federal
datasets.

e Action 13 (Develop a Curated Data Skills Catalog) will provide a source for enhancing workforce
data skills.

STRATEGY.DATA.GOV Page 14 RESOURCES.DATA.GOV