Federal Data Strategy Improving Agency Data Skills Playbook

Step 4 - Identify and execute ways to meet those needs

What? After identifying gaps, the agency should develop and execute strategies to close those gaps.

Who? The agency's Chief Data Officer, Statistical Official, Evaluation Officer, Chief Human Capital
Officer, Chief Learning Officer, and Data Governance Body.

How? Determine the approaches to addressing agency data skills deficiencies. Agencies can address
gaps by retaining talent, recruiting new employees, and building upon existing skill sets. The Curated
Data Skills Catalog from Action 13 of the Federal Data Strategy 2020 Action Plan should aid the agency in
meeting those needs by providing information on existing learning providers, programs, courses, and
opportunities for employees to practice and apply new skills.

Based on OPM’s guidance on Competency Modeling and Gap Analysis," the agency identifies core and
technical competency models necessary for mission achievement.

Chief Human Capital Officers and Chief Learning Officers play a big role in this phase and should work
collaboratively to execute ways to meet those needs as resources permit. Using the data gathered from
the data skills gap analysis, the Chief Human Capital Officer and Chief Learning Officer should establish a
comprehensive and sustainable strategic approach to recruit and develop existing talent within
organizations, and bridge identified skills gaps, working across human resources disciplines, just as data
practitioners are being asked to do”.

Some of the strategies to close the gaps include, but are not limited to:

e Use the agency’s data governance body to analyze whether gaps can be filled by another part of
the agency (e.g., the analytics office can provide analysis support to other units).

e Review the Curated Data Skills Catalog from Action 13 of the Federal Data Strategy 2020 Action
Plan to identify learning providers, programs, and courses that can provide the necessary skills
to bridge any gaps.

¢ Coordinate and share lessons learned in addressing skills gaps through government-wide
councils such as the Chief Data Officers Council.

* Convene subject matter expert meetings to discuss topics ranging from developing workforce
planning, upskilling, and reskilling to improving recruitment processes, job analysis
documentation, and other human resources initiatives.

e Bring the voice of the employee to the table in data skill discussions and define data skills that
all staff should have versus those appropriate for more advanced staff. Then, customize the data
skills training program based upon the level of competency needed by different groups of
employees.

e Identify successful change management strategies for managers to help them better understand
how data can enhance the work of the organization.

11.U.S. Office of Personnel Management. Workforce & Succession Planning: Competencies and Gaps. Retrieved from
opm.gov/services-for-agencies/workforce-succession-planning/competencies-and-gaps/.

2 Elkeles, T., & Phillips, J.J. (2017). Chief Talent Officer: The Evolving Role of the Chief Learning Officer (2" ed.). New York, NY:
Routledge.

STRATEGY.DATA.GOV Page 11 RESOURCES.DATA.GOV