Federal Data Strategy Improving Agency Data Skills Playbook

Improving Agency Data Skills Playbook

Improving staff data skills will allow agencies to better harness the power of data. To help agencies
address this need, this playbook provides advice and tools to help agencies implement Action 4 of the
2020 Federal Data Strategy Action Plan (hereafter “2020 Action Plan”), “Identify Opportunities to
Increase Staff Data Skills.” Executing the activities contained in this document will help agencies
progress in fulfilling requirements of the Foundations for Evidence-Based Policymaking Act of 2018 in
addition to related guidance’ >.

This playbook’s structure mirrors and expands upon the four major steps of a data skills capacity
assessment:

1. identify critical data skills needed for the agency,

2. assess the current staff capacity for those data skills,

3. perform a data skills gap analysis to prioritize the agency’s needs, and

4. identify and execute approaches to meet those needs.

The “who, what, and how” of each step is broken out below, followed by practical activities agencies will
find helpful in executing the respective step. These activities are not strict, prescriptive instructions that
require exact execution. Rather, agencies should prioritize and adapt the individual approaches in ways
that best apply to their own organizations. While the scope for this assessment is intended to be at the
agency level, some agencies may find it more helpful to do a more granular analysis at the operating or
business unit level, particularly when skills and mission differ across an agency. If an agency takes such a
distributed approach, a centralized body should analyze whether gaps can be filled by another part of
the organization (e.g., the analytics office can provide advanced statistical analysis to other units).
As each agency is part of a larger Federal Government community, agencies should look to one another
for inspiration and lessons learned as they identify and meet their data skills needs. Coordination and
knowledge sharing will be critical to the success and longevity of efforts to develop data skills. Some
councils that will be important for this include:

¢ Chief Data Officers Council

e Interagency Council on Statistical Policy

e Human Capital Planning and Resources councils

Agencies can also leverage centralized data governance bodies for knowledge sharing within the
organization.

3 PA 435, 137 9.

of the Foundations for Evidence-Based Policymaking Act of 2018: Learning Agendas,
Personnel, and Planning Guidance, July 10, 2019, found at: whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2019/07/M-19-23.pdf.

3 The Evidence Act also requires a capacity assessment, which in part determines “the extent to which evaluation and research
capacity is present within the agency to include personnel” and “the extent to which the agency has the capacity to assist
agency staff and program offices to develop the capacity to use evaluation research and analysis approaches and data in the
day-to-day operations.” This can help guide agencies in fulfilling Step 2 — “Assessing current staff capacity for needed data
skills” and Step 3- “Perform a data skills gap analysis” of this Action.

STRATEGY.DATA.GOV Page 1 RESOURCES.DATA.GOV