19412

Notices

Federal Register
Vol. 70, No. 70

Wednesday, April 13, 2005

This section of the FEDERAL REGISTER
contains documents other than rules or
proposed rules that are applicable to the
public. Notices of hearings and investigations,
committee meetings, agency decisions and
rulings, delegations of authority, filing of
petitions and applications and agency
statements of organization and functions are
examples of documents appearing in this
section.

DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

Submission for OMB Review;
Comment Request

April 7, 2005.

The Department of Agriculture has
submitted the following information
collection requirement(s) to OMB for
review and clearance under the
Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995,
Public Law 104-13. Comments
regarding (a) whether the collection of
information is necessary for the proper
performance of the functions of the
agency, including whether the
information will have practical utility;
(b) the accuracy of the agency’s estimate
of burden including the validity of the
methodology and assumptions used; (c)
ways to enhance the quality, utility and
clarity of the information to be
collected; (d) ways to minimize the
burden of the collection of information
on those who are to respond, including
through the use of appropriate
automated, electronic, mechanical, or
other technological collection
techniques or other forms of information
technology should be addressed to: Desk
Officer for Agriculture, Office of
Information and Regulatory Affairs,
Office of Management and Budget
(OMB), OIRA_Submission@omb.eop.gov
or fax (202) 395-5806 and to
Departmental Clearance Office, USDA,
OCIO, Mail Stop 7602, Washington, DC
20250-7602. Comments regarding these
information collections are best assured
of having their full effect if received
within 30 days of this notification.
Copies of the submission(s) may be
obtained by calling (202) 720-8958.

An agency may not conduct or
sponsor a collection of information
unless the collection of information
displays a currently valid OMB control
number and the agency informs
potential persons who are to respond to
the collection of information that such
persons are not required to respond to

the collection of information unless it
displays a currently valid OMB control
number.

Agricultural Marketing Service

Title: Regulations Governing the
Voluntary Grading of Shell Eggs.

OMB Control Number: 0581-0128.

Summary of Collection: The
Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (60
Stat. 1087-1091, as amended; 7 U.S.C.
1621-1627) (AMA) directs and
authorizes the Department to develop
standards of quality, grades, grading
programs, and services to enable a more
orderly marketing of agricultural
products so trading may be facilitated
and so consumers may be able to obtain
products graded and identified under
USDA programs. The Agricultural
Marketing Service (AMS) carries out
regulations, which provide a voluntary
program for grading shell eggs on the
basis of U.S. standards, grades, and
weight classes. In addition, the shell egg
industry and users of the products have
requested that other types of voluntary
services be developed and provided
under these regulations. This program is
voluntary where respondents would
need to request or apply for the specific
service they wish.

Need and Use of the Information:
Only authorized representatives of the
USDA used the information collected.
The information is used to administer,
conduct and carry out the grading
services requested by the respondents. If
the information were not collected, the
agency would not be able to provide the
voluntary grading service authorized
and requested by congress, provide the
types of services requested by industry,
administer the program, ensure properly
grade-labeled products, calculate the
cost of the service or collect for the cost
furnishing service.

Description of Respondents: Business
or other for profit; Federal Government;
State, Local or Tribal Government.

Number of Respondents: 623.

Frequency of Responses: Reporting:
On occasion; semi-annually; monthly;
annually; other (daily).

Total Burden Hours: 5,630.

Ruth Brown,

Departmental Information Collection
Clearance Officer.

[FR Doc. 05-7339 Filed 412-05; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 3410-02-M

DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Food and Nutrition Service

Agency Information Collection
Activities: Proposed Collection;
Comment Request: Uniform Grant
Application Package for Discretionary
Grant Programs (Form FNS 728)

AGENCY: Food and Nutrition Service,
USDA.

ACTION: Notice.

sumMaRY: In accordance with the
Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, this
notice invites the general public and
other public agencies to comment on
proposed information collections. The
proposed collection is a revision of a
currently approved collection.

The purpose of the Uniform Grant
Application Package for Discretionary
Grant Programs is to provide a
standardized format for the
development of all Requests for
Applications released by the Food and
Nutrition Service (FNS) Agency and to
allow for a more expeditious OMB
clearance process.

DATES: Written comments must be
submitted on or before June 13, 2005.
ADDRESSES: Comments are invited on (a)
whether the proposed collection of
information is necessary for the proper
performance of the functions of the
agency, including whether the
information has practical utility; (b) the
accuracy of the agency?s estimate of the
burden of the proposed collection of
information, including the validity of
the methodology and assumptions that
were used: (c) ways to enhance the
quality, utility, and clarity of the
information to be collected; and (d)
ways to minimize the burden of the
collection of information on those who
are to respond, including the use of
appropriate automated, electronic,
mechanical, or other technological
collection techniques or other forms of
information technology. Comments may
be sent to Lael J. Lubing, Director,
Grants Management Division, U.S.
Department of Agriculture, Food and
Nutrition Service, 3101 Park Center
Drive, Room 732, Alexandria, VA
22302.

All responses to this notice will be
summarized and included in the request
for OMB approval. All comments will
also be a matter of public record.